hey guys welcome to another educational
video in this video I'm gonna teach you
how to assess your chances of getting
into your dream University sometimes
you're like oh I want to get into
Harvard but how do you know if you're
good enough how do you know if you have
good chances of getting accepted one key
to it is looking at an average class
profile and I'm gonna teach you all of
the tips and tricks that you can use to
assess your own chances so if you're
interested continue watching this video
but basically what you want to do is go
to your university speech go to the
admissions page and sometimes they would
even publish the class profile out of
MBA programs do that if your program
does not publish the average class
profile and I know that a lot of
bachelors enjoyed a lot of masters you
can basically reach out to the
admissions committee and tell them hey
my name is marina I'm an international
student applying to your program could
you please tell me what was the average
GPA of the students you've accepted last
year and maybe you could also advise me
on you know the amount of experience
they've had oh maybe what you're looking
at when you're considering an
application because this would give you
an idea of what is strive for maybe you
should do mobile into your experience
maybe you should double down on your
tests because again average class
profile is what you should strive to
become and if you're at least 10 percent
better the good chances are you're
getting and you're getting some
financial aid if you're ten percent
worse on each category like your GPA is
10 percent worse your work experience is
10 percent less then maybe it makes
sense to postpone your application for a
couple more months and dive deeper into
tests or maybe even apply next year or
maybe lower the plank of your
universities and look for some lower
ranking ones but that have more chances
of you getting accepted let's take a
look average class profile let's do
Harvard
so what we have here is 9,000 applicants
900 got accepted less than 10% 69
countries represented perfect 11 or
national students 41 percent women 37
percent international nice but what
interests me a lot is first GPA is my
GPA high enough like if you are getting
this 3 point 71 GPA the average and
yours is like 3 point 3 that means you
have to show really high GMAT score like
higher than average because you have to
be on average I would say in order to
get accepted and get financial aid that
you need to be at least 10% higher than
average on every single criteria like
GPA work experience test results etc but
if you're not like be careful here this
is something that I always pay attention
to background like economics humanities
stem like this doesn't give me a lot of
information but for example if I'm
applying from an economics background I
know that I'm in the majority which
means that I have better chances
slightly better chances of getting
accepted average age 27 sounds good if
you're a 29 if you're a 25 that's all
good if you're like 45 you might be a
little like oh because again
universities are looking for a diverse
classes but they also want everyone to
get well on together so they would be
looking at people from different
backgrounds but also like different ages
but not like way too far so maybe if
you're 45 I would recommend looking at
Executive MBA programs because v4r it's
always like so much fun like parties and
stuff I don't know if you're interested
in that a major 45 but maybe if you are
again no worries here GMAT and Giri
because they accept both they're gonna
give you like median okay so the median
is 730 if your GMAT is 690 up well for
Harvard I wouldn't really apply it maybe
try but the chances are low again
ideally your GMAT is like 740 or if
you're taking Jerry it's almost like a
hundred seventy on both 170 is the Mac
so here so again you want to be
ten person better or at least like not
more than ten percent worse when I was
at this hovered MBA Meetup what they
told me like you always have a chance of
a plane later right you always have the
street deadlines the ideal situations
that you apply in the first or second
deadline if you're applying them the
third deadline there are really low
chances of getting accepted but
sometimes you like maybe I should apply
in the second deadline instead of the
first so the decision-making process
here should look like would I be able to
improve my test scores by 35% if I apply
in the second round and if the answer is
yes then just postpone your application
work a little more on your tests and
apply it later another important thing
to mention again what I've done when I
was communicating with the universities
I was communicating with them like
writing emails really important to show
that you're interested and I was
attending all of the seminars and
webinars that they conducted for
international or like any applicants
there would be like 20 people on those
webinars especially if it's a smaller
university but they gonna remember you
they're gonna remember you as an active
student for a top-ranking universities
they would want you to come on campus
maybe to take a tour it this is like an
ideal thing and they always ask for it
like if you look at an application you
would always see a question like have
you attended any of our open days have
you attended any meetings
have you met with our admissions
committee because they want to see how
interested you are hey how much you're
willing to commit to this application
are you willing to travel for it are you
willing to go to another city for that
because sometimes they have like travel
admissions committees and you can just
meet them in in different places of the
world so if you don't have the chance to
travel at least go to all of their
seminars webinars and stuff and use your
real name while registering because
again this is the way for them to
remember you and this really works thank
you guys so much for watching this video
up to the very end my goal with this
video is that
you finish watching it with a full
picture in your brain like what are your
chances of getting accepted where you
stand regarding to the students who got
accepted last year and I hope you
enjoyed watching it I hope it was useful
please don't forget to like this video
if you enjoyed it here you know yes
subscribe to this channel there's a red
button below click it and I'll see you
soon in the next videos bye